README.md, before:


# <img src="man/figures/logo.svg" align="right" height="139" /> R package arules - Mining Association Rules and Frequent Itemsets

[![CRAN
version](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/arules)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=arules)
[![stream r-universe
status](https://mhahsler.r-universe.dev/badges/arules)](https://mhahsler.r-universe.dev/arules)
[![CRAN RStudio mirror
downloads](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/arules)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=arules)

The arules package for R provides the infrastructure for representing,
manipulating and analyzing transaction data and patterns using [frequent
itemsets and association
rules](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Association_rule_learning). The
package also provides a wide range of [interest
measures](https://mhahsler.github.io/arules/docs/measures) and mining
algorithms including the code of Christian Borgelt’s popular and
efficient C implementations of the association mining algorithms
[Apriori](https://borgelt.net/apriori.html) and
[Eclat](https://borgelt.net/eclat.html). In addition, the following
mining algorithms are available via
[fim4r](https://borgelt.net/fim4r.html):

- Apriori
- Eclat
- Carpenter
- FPgrowth
- IsTa
- RElim
- SaM

Code examples can be found in [Chapter 5 of the web book R Companion for
Introduction to Data
Mining](https://mhahsler.github.io/Introduction_to_Data_Mining_R_Examples/book/association-analysis-basic-concepts-and-algorithms.html).

## arules core packages:

- [arules](https://cran.r-project.org/package=arules): arules base
  package with data structures, mining algorithms (APRIORI and ECLAT),
  interest measures.
- [arulesViz](https://github.com/mhahsler/arulesViz): Visualization of
  association rules.
- [arulesCBA](https://github.com/ianstenbit/arulesCBA): Classification
  algorithms based on association rules (includes CBA).  
- [arulesSequences](https://cran.r-project.org/package=arulesSequences):
  Mining frequent sequences (cSPADE).

## Other related packages:

### Additional mining algorithms

- [arulesNBMiner](https://github.com/mhahsler/arulesNBMiner): Mining
  NB-frequent itemsets and NB-precise rules.
- [fim4r](https://borgelt.net/fim4r.html): Provides fast implementations
  for several mining algorithms. An interface function called `fim4r()`
  is provided in `arules`.
- [opusminer](https://cran.r-project.org/package=opusminer): OPUS Miner
  algorithm for finding the op k productive, non-redundant itemsets.
  Call `opus()` with `format = 'itemsets'`.
- [RKEEL](https://cran.r-project.org/package=RKEEL): Interface to KEEL’s
  association rule mining algorithm.
- [RSarules](https://cran.r-project.org/package=RSarules): Mining
  algorithm which randomly samples association rules with one pre-chosen
  item as the consequent from a transaction dataset.

### In-database analytics

- [ibmdbR](https://cran.r-project.org/package=ibmdbR): IBM in-database
  analytics for R can calculate association rules from a database table.
- [rfml](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rfml): Mine frequent
  itemsets or association rules using a MarkLogic server.

### Interface

- [rattle](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rattle): Provides a
  graphical user interface for association rule mining.
- [pmml](https://cran.r-project.org/package=pmml): Generates PMML
  (predictive model markup language) for association rules.

### Classification

- [arc](https://cran.r-project.org/package=arc): Alternative CBA
  implementation.
- [inTrees](https://cran.r-project.org/package=inTrees): Interpret Tree
  Ensembles provides functions for: extracting, measuring and pruning
  rules; selecting a compact rule set; summarizing rules into a learner.
- [rCBA](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rCBA): Alternative CBA
  implementation.
- [qCBA](https://cran.r-project.org/package=qCBA): Quantitative
  Classification by Association Rules.
- [sblr](https://cran.r-project.org/package=sbrl): Scalable Bayesian
  rule lists algorithm for classification.

### Outlier Detection

- [fpmoutliers](https://cran.r-project.org/package=fpmoutliers):
  Frequent Pattern Mining Outliers.

### Recommendation/Prediction

- [recommenerlab](https://github.com/mhahsler/recommenderlab): Supports
  creating predictions using association rules.

## Installation

**Stable CRAN version:** Install from within R with

``` r
install.packages("arules")
```

**Current development version:** Install from
[r-universe.](https://mhahsler.r-universe.dev/arules)

``` r
install.packages("arules", repos = "https://mhahsler.r-universe.dev")
```

## Usage

Load package and mine some association rules.

``` r
library("arules")
data("IncomeESL")

trans <- transactions(IncomeESL)
trans
```

    ## transactions in sparse format with
    ##  8993 transactions (rows) and
    ##  84 items (columns)

``` r
rules <- apriori(trans, supp = 0.1, conf = 0.9, target = "rules")
```

    ## Apriori
    ## 
    ## Parameter specification:
    ##  confidence minval smax arem  aval originalSupport maxtime support minlen
    ##         0.9    0.1    1 none FALSE            TRUE       5     0.1      1
    ##  maxlen target  ext
    ##      10  rules TRUE
    ## 
    ## Algorithmic control:
    ##  filter tree heap memopt load sort verbose
    ##     0.1 TRUE TRUE  FALSE TRUE    2    TRUE
    ## 
    ## Absolute minimum support count: 899 
    ## 
    ## set item appearances ...[0 item(s)] done [0.00s].
    ## set transactions ...[84 item(s), 8993 transaction(s)] done [0.01s].
    ## sorting and recoding items ... [42 item(s)] done [0.00s].
    ## creating transaction tree ... done [0.00s].
    ## checking subsets of size 1 2 3 4 5 6 done [0.03s].
    ## writing ... [457 rule(s)] done [0.00s].
    ## creating S4 object  ... done [0.00s].

Inspect the rules with the highest lift.

``` r
inspect(head(rules, n = 3, by = "lift"))
```

    ##     lhs                           rhs                      support confidence coverage lift count
    ## [1] {dual incomes=no,                                                                            
    ##      householder status=own}   => {marital status=married}    0.10       0.97     0.10  2.6   914
    ## [2] {years in bay area=>10,                                                                      
    ##      dual incomes=yes,                                                                           
    ##      type of home=house}       => {marital status=married}    0.10       0.96     0.10  2.6   902
    ## [3] {dual incomes=yes,                                                                           
    ##      householder status=own,                                                                     
    ##      type of home=house,                                                                         
    ##      language in home=english} => {marital status=married}    0.11       0.96     0.11  2.6   988

## Using arules with tidyverse

`arules` works seamlessly with [tidyverse](https://www.tidyverse.org/).
For example:

- `dplyr` can be used for cleaning and preparing the transactions.
- `transaction()` and other functions accept `tibble` as input.
- Functions in arules can be used with `%>%`.
- [arulesViz](https://github.com/mhahsler/arulesViz) provides
  visualizations based on `ggplot2`.

For example, we can remove the ethnic information column before creating
transactions and then mine and inspect rules.

``` r
library("tidyverse")
library("arules")
data("IncomeESL")

trans <- IncomeESL %>%
    select(-`ethnic classification`) %>%
    transactions()
rules <- trans %>%
    apriori(supp = 0.1, conf = 0.9, target = "rules", control = list(verbose = FALSE))
rules %>%
    head(n = 3, by = "lift") %>%
    inspect()
```

    ##     lhs                           rhs                      support confidence coverage lift count
    ## [1] {dual incomes=no,                                                                            
    ##      householder status=own}   => {marital status=married}    0.10       0.97     0.10  2.6   914
    ## [2] {years in bay area=>10,                                                                      
    ##      dual incomes=yes,                                                                           
    ##      type of home=house}       => {marital status=married}    0.10       0.96     0.10  2.6   902
    ## [3] {dual incomes=yes,                                                                           
    ##      householder status=own,                                                                     
    ##      type of home=house,                                                                         
    ##      language in home=english} => {marital status=married}    0.11       0.96     0.11  2.6   988

## Using arules from Python

See [Getting started with arules using
Python.](https://mhahsler.github.io/arules/docs/python/arules_python.html)

## Support

Please report bugs [here on
GitHub.](https://github.com/mhahsler/arules/issues) Questions should be
posted on [stackoverflow and tagged with
arules](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/arules).

## References

- Michael Hahsler, Sudheer Chelluboina, Kurt Hornik, and Christian
  Buchta. [The arules R-package ecosystem: Analyzing interesting
  patterns from large transaction
  datasets.](https://jmlr.csail.mit.edu/papers/v12/hahsler11a.html)
  *Journal of Machine Learning Research,* 12:1977-1981, 2011.
- Michael Hahsler, Bettina Grün and Kurt Hornik. [arules - A
  Computational Environment for Mining Association Rules and Frequent
  Item Sets.](https://dx.doi.org/10.18637/jss.v014.i15) *Journal of
  Statistical Software,* 14(15), 2005.
- Hahsler, Michael. [A Probabilistic Comparison of Commonly Used
  Interest Measures for Association
  Rules](https://mhahsler.github.io/arules/docs/measures), 2015, URL:
  <https://mhahsler.github.io/arules/docs/measures>.
- Michael Hahsler. [An R Companion for Introduction to Data Mining:
  Chapter
  5](https://mhahsler.github.io/Introduction_to_Data_Mining_R_Examples/book/association-analysis-basic-concepts-and-algorithms.html),
  2021, URL:
  <https://mhahsler.github.io/Introduction_to_Data_Mining_R_Examples/book/>

Commit message:

We have now a Python package.

README.md, after:


# <img src="man/figures/logo.svg" align="right" height="139" /> R package arules - Mining Association Rules and Frequent Itemsets

[![CRAN
version](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/arules)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=arules)
[![stream r-universe
status](https://mhahsler.r-universe.dev/badges/arules)](https://mhahsler.r-universe.dev/arules)
[![CRAN RStudio mirror
downloads](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/arules)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=arules)

The arules package for R provides the infrastructure for representing,
manipulating and analyzing transaction data and patterns using [frequent
itemsets and association
rules](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Association_rule_learning). The
package also provides a wide range of [interest
measures](https://mhahsler.github.io/arules/docs/measures) and mining
algorithms including the code of Christian Borgelt’s popular and
efficient C implementations of the association mining algorithms
[Apriori](https://borgelt.net/apriori.html) and
[Eclat](https://borgelt.net/eclat.html). In addition, the following
mining algorithms are available via
[fim4r](https://borgelt.net/fim4r.html):

- Apriori
- Eclat
- Carpenter
- FPgrowth
- IsTa
- RElim
- SaM

Code examples can be found in [Chapter 5 of the web book R Companion for
Introduction to Data
Mining](https://mhahsler.github.io/Introduction_to_Data_Mining_R_Examples/book/association-analysis-basic-concepts-and-algorithms.html).

## arules core packages:

- [arules](https://cran.r-project.org/package=arules): arules base
  package with data structures, mining algorithms (APRIORI and ECLAT),
  interest measures.
- [arulesViz](https://github.com/mhahsler/arulesViz): Visualization of
  association rules.
- [arulesCBA](https://github.com/ianstenbit/arulesCBA): Classification
  algorithms based on association rules (includes CBA).  
- [arulesSequences](https://cran.r-project.org/package=arulesSequences):
  Mining frequent sequences (cSPADE).

## Other related packages:

### Additional mining algorithms

- [arulesNBMiner](https://github.com/mhahsler/arulesNBMiner): Mining
  NB-frequent itemsets and NB-precise rules.
- [fim4r](https://borgelt.net/fim4r.html): Provides fast implementations
  for several mining algorithms. An interface function called `fim4r()`
  is provided in `arules`.
- [opusminer](https://cran.r-project.org/package=opusminer): OPUS Miner
  algorithm for finding the op k productive, non-redundant itemsets.
  Call `opus()` with `format = 'itemsets'`.
- [RKEEL](https://cran.r-project.org/package=RKEEL): Interface to KEEL’s
  association rule mining algorithm.
- [RSarules](https://cran.r-project.org/package=RSarules): Mining
  algorithm which randomly samples association rules with one pre-chosen
  item as the consequent from a transaction dataset.

### In-database analytics

- [ibmdbR](https://cran.r-project.org/package=ibmdbR): IBM in-database
  analytics for R can calculate association rules from a database table.
- [rfml](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rfml): Mine frequent
  itemsets or association rules using a MarkLogic server.

### Interface

- [rattle](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rattle): Provides a
  graphical user interface for association rule mining.
- [pmml](https://cran.r-project.org/package=pmml): Generates PMML
  (predictive model markup language) for association rules.

### Classification

- [arc](https://cran.r-project.org/package=arc): Alternative CBA
  implementation.
- [inTrees](https://cran.r-project.org/package=inTrees): Interpret Tree
  Ensembles provides functions for: extracting, measuring and pruning
  rules; selecting a compact rule set; summarizing rules into a learner.
- [rCBA](https://cran.r-project.org/package=rCBA): Alternative CBA
  implementation.
- [qCBA](https://cran.r-project.org/package=qCBA): Quantitative
  Classification by Association Rules.
- [sblr](https://cran.r-project.org/package=sbrl): Scalable Bayesian
  rule lists algorithm for classification.

### Outlier Detection

- [fpmoutliers](https://cran.r-project.org/package=fpmoutliers):
  Frequent Pattern Mining Outliers.

### Recommendation/Prediction

- [recommenerlab](https://github.com/mhahsler/recommenderlab): Supports
  creating predictions using association rules.

## Installation

**Stable CRAN version:** Install from within R with

``` r
install.packages("arules")
```

**Current development version:** Install from
[r-universe.](https://mhahsler.r-universe.dev/arules)

``` r
install.packages("arules", repos = "https://mhahsler.r-universe.dev")
```

## Usage

Load package and mine some association rules.

``` r
library("arules")
data("IncomeESL")

trans <- transactions(IncomeESL)
trans
```

    ## transactions in sparse format with
    ##  8993 transactions (rows) and
    ##  84 items (columns)

``` r
rules <- apriori(trans, supp = 0.1, conf = 0.9, target = "rules")
```

    ## Apriori
    ## 
    ## Parameter specification:
    ##  confidence minval smax arem  aval originalSupport maxtime support minlen
    ##         0.9    0.1    1 none FALSE            TRUE       5     0.1      1
    ##  maxlen target  ext
    ##      10  rules TRUE
    ## 
    ## Algorithmic control:
    ##  filter tree heap memopt load sort verbose
    ##     0.1 TRUE TRUE  FALSE TRUE    2    TRUE
    ## 
    ## Absolute minimum support count: 899 
    ## 
    ## set item appearances ...[0 item(s)] done [0.00s].
    ## set transactions ...[84 item(s), 8993 transaction(s)] done [0.00s].
    ## sorting and recoding items ... [42 item(s)] done [0.00s].
    ## creating transaction tree ... done [0.00s].
    ## checking subsets of size 1 2 3 4 5 6 done [0.01s].
    ## writing ... [457 rule(s)] done [0.00s].
    ## creating S4 object  ... done [0.00s].

Inspect the rules with the highest lift.

``` r
inspect(head(rules, n = 3, by = "lift"))
```

    ##     lhs                           rhs                      support confidence coverage lift count
    ## [1] {dual incomes=no,                                                                            
    ##      householder status=own}   => {marital status=married}    0.10       0.97     0.10  2.6   914
    ## [2] {years in bay area=>10,                                                                      
    ##      dual incomes=yes,                                                                           
    ##      type of home=house}       => {marital status=married}    0.10       0.96     0.10  2.6   902
    ## [3] {dual incomes=yes,                                                                           
    ##      householder status=own,                                                                     
    ##      type of home=house,                                                                         
    ##      language in home=english} => {marital status=married}    0.11       0.96     0.11  2.6   988

## Using arules with tidyverse

`arules` works seamlessly with [tidyverse](https://www.tidyverse.org/).
For example:

- `dplyr` can be used for cleaning and preparing the transactions.
- `transaction()` and other functions accept `tibble` as input.
- Functions in arules can be used with `%>%`.
- [arulesViz](https://github.com/mhahsler/arulesViz) provides
  visualizations based on `ggplot2`.

For example, we can remove the ethnic information column before creating
transactions and then mine and inspect rules.

``` r
library("tidyverse")
library("arules")
data("IncomeESL")

trans <- IncomeESL %>% select(-`ethnic classification`) %>% transactions()
rules <- trans %>% apriori(supp = 0.1, conf = 0.9, target = "rules", 
  control = list(verbose = FALSE))
rules %>% head(n = 3, by = "lift") %>% inspect()
```

    ##     lhs                           rhs                      support confidence coverage lift count
    ## [1] {dual incomes=no,                                                                            
    ##      householder status=own}   => {marital status=married}    0.10       0.97     0.10  2.6   914
    ## [2] {years in bay area=>10,                                                                      
    ##      dual incomes=yes,                                                                           
    ##      type of home=house}       => {marital status=married}    0.10       0.96     0.10  2.6   902
    ## [3] {dual incomes=yes,                                                                           
    ##      householder status=own,                                                                     
    ##      type of home=house,                                                                         
    ##      language in home=english} => {marital status=married}    0.11       0.96     0.11  2.6   988

## Using arules from Python

A Python interface for `arules` and `arulesViz` is now available in the
Python package [`arulespy`](https://pypi.org/project/arulespy/).

## Support

Please report bugs [here on
GitHub.](https://github.com/mhahsler/arules/issues) Questions should be
posted on [stackoverflow and tagged with
arules](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/arules).

## References

- Michael Hahsler, Sudheer Chelluboina, Kurt Hornik, and Christian
  Buchta. [The arules R-package ecosystem: Analyzing interesting
  patterns from large transaction
  datasets.](https://jmlr.csail.mit.edu/papers/v12/hahsler11a.html)
  *Journal of Machine Learning Research,* 12:1977-1981, 2011.
- Michael Hahsler, Bettina Grün and Kurt Hornik. [arules - A
  Computational Environment for Mining Association Rules and Frequent
  Item Sets.](https://dx.doi.org/10.18637/jss.v014.i15) *Journal of
  Statistical Software,* 14(15), 2005.
- Hahsler, Michael. [A Probabilistic Comparison of Commonly Used
  Interest Measures for Association
  Rules](https://mhahsler.github.io/arules/docs/measures), 2015, URL:
  <https://mhahsler.github.io/arules/docs/measures>.
- Michael Hahsler. [An R Companion for Introduction to Data Mining:
  Chapter
  5](https://mhahsler.github.io/Introduction_to_Data_Mining_R_Examples/book/association-analysis-basic-concepts-and-algorithms.html),
  2021, URL:
  <https://mhahsler.github.io/Introduction_to_Data_Mining_R_Examples/book/>
